
# Review

What’s the difference between PUT and PATCH?

PUT method uses the request URI to supply a modified version of the requested resource which replaces the original version of the resource

 whereas the PATCH method supplies a set of instructions to modify the resource.


Postman

Amazon API Gateway

Insomnia REST Client

There is a reason developers love Insomnia. With our streamlined API client, you can quickly and easily send REST, SOAP, GraphQL, and GRPC requests directly within Insomnia.


Compare and contrast Swagger and APIDoc.js 1 Which HTTP status codes should be sent with each type of (un)successful API call?

Swagger is a set of open-source tools built around the OpenAPI Specification that can help you design, build, document and consume REST APIs. The major Swagger tools include:

Swagger Editor – browser-based editor where you can write OpenAPI specs.
Swagger UI – renders OpenAPI specs as interactive API documentation.
Swagger Codegen – generates server stubs and client libraries from an OpenAPI spec.



Compare and contrast SOAP and ReST

The difference is: SOAP is a XML-based message protocol, while REST is an architectural style. SOAP uses WSDL for communication between consumer and provider, whereas REST just uses XML or JSON to send and receive data. SOAP invokes services by calling RPC


Web Server  :A web server is software and hardware that uses HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) and other protocols to respond to client requests made over the World Wide Web. 

The main job of a web server is to display website content through storing, processing and delivering webpages to users. 

Web server hardware is connected to the internet and allows data to be exchanged with other connected devices, while web server software controls how a user accesses hosted files. The web server process is an example of the client/server model. All computers that host websites must have web server software.

Express :

Express is a minimal and flexible Node.js web application framework that provides a robust set of features for web and mobile applications

Routing :
is the process of selecting a path for traffic in a network or between or across multiple networks.

WRRC:  word request response cycle

What is a client?

A client is a piece of computer hardware or software that accesses a service made available by a server. Generally, clients are web browsers (like Chrome or Firefox), but clients can also be API’s making requests to another server or the command line (when making cURL requests).

What is an HTTP request?

A HTTP request is a text string generated by the client and sent to the server containing the specifications of the resource the client is asking for. A resource is anything that can accessed via the web. The HTTP request communicates which resource a client wants to interact with and how the client wants to interact with it, along with some metadata held in the header related to the request.

What is an HTTP response?

An HTTP response is what is sent by a server to a client in response to an HTTP request. These responses contain a status code and if the request was successful, the requested resource. An example status code for a successful request would be “200” and an example status code for an unsuccessful request would be “404”. Other common status codes include “300” for redirects and “500” for server errors.

hat happens once the client receives the HTTP response back from the server?

Once the client receives the HTTP response, the browser will render the HTTP response body message. This message is either the requested resource (for example, a web page) or display a message relating to status code if the request wasn’t successful.

npm :Node Package Manager


npm is the package manager for the Node JavaScript platform. It puts modules in place so that node can find them, and manages dependency conflicts intelligently. It is extremely configurable to support a wide variety of use cases. Most commonly, it is used to publish, discover, install, and develop node programs

 is the world's largest software registry. Open source developers from every continent use npm to share and borrow packages, and many organizations use npm to manage private development as well.

npm consists of three distinct components:

the website

Use the website to discover packages, set up profiles, and manage other aspects of your npm experience. For example, you can set up organizations to manage access to public or private packages.
the Command Line Interface (CLI)

the registry

The registry is a large public database of JavaScript software and the meta-information surrounding it.

exprees & node 

Other common web-development tasks are not directly supported by Node itself. If you want to add specific handling for different HTTP verbs (e.g. GET, POST, DELETE, etc.), separately handle requests at different URL paths ("routes"), serve static files, or use templates to dynamically create the response, Node won't be of much use on its own. You will either need to write the code yourself, or you can avoid reinventing the wheel and use a web framework!

Express is the most popular Node web framework, and is the underlying library for a number of other popular Node web frameworks. It provides mechanisms to:

Write handlers for requests with different HTTP verbs at different URL paths (routes).
Integrate with "view" rendering engines in order to generate responses by inserting data into templates.
Set common web application settings like the port to use for connecting, and the location of templates that are used for rendering the response.
Add additional request processing "middleware" at any point within the request handling pipeline.


What is the difference between a framework and a library?

I always thought of a library as a set of objects and functions that focuses on solving a particular problem or a specific area of application development (i.e. database access); and a framework on the other hand as a collection of libraries centered on a particular methodology (i.e. MVC) and which covers all areas of application development.